Revise the page to accurately document the well-known labels, annotations and taints (#25998)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/labels-annotations-taints.md

<!-- body -->

> # Labels

Reviewer: We do not use H1 in any pages. The "top-level" headers are always H2, i.e. `##`.

{{< note >}}
You can only set this annotation on Pods that have a single container.
{{< /note >}}

## ingressclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class

Example: `ingressclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class: "true"`

Used on: IngressClass

When a single IngressClass resource has this annotation set to `"true"`, new Ingress resource without a class specified will be assigned this default class.

## kubernetes.io/ingress.class (deprecated)

{{< note >}} Starting in v1.18, this annotation is deprecated in favor of `spec.ingressClassName`. {{< /note >}}

## alpha.kubernetes.io/provided-node-ip

Example: `alpha.kubernetes.io/provided-node-ip: "10.0.0.1"`

Used on: Node

The kubelet can set this annotation on a Node to denote its configured IPv4 address.

When kubelet is started with the "external" cloud provider, it sets this annotation on the Node to denote an IP address set from the command line flag (`--node-ip`). This IP is verified with the cloud provider as valid by the cloud-controller-manager.

> ## The taints listed below are always used on Nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The taints listed below are always used on Nodes**
```

## node.kubernetes.io/not-ready

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/not-ready:NoExecute`

> The node controller detects whether a node is ready by monitoriing its health and adds or removes this taint accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The node controller detects whether a node is ready by monitoring its health and adds or removes this taint accordingly.
```

> Sets the taint with `NotReady` on a node at creation. Otherwise, a new node may receive the taint with some delay causing Pods to be scheduled on a not-ready node. node controller will remove the taint when the node becomes ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The node controller detects whether a node is ready by monitoring its health
and adds or removes this taint accordingly.
```

## node.kubernetes.io/unreachable

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/unreachable:NoExecute`

> The node controller adds the taint to a node corresponding to the [NodeCondition](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#condition) `Ready` being `Unknown`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The node controller adds the taint to a node corresponding to the [Node condition](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#condition) `Ready` being `Unknown`.
```

> The control plane monitors the health of all Nodes and decides whether to add or remove the taint.

Reviewer: pls consider my previous suggestions on this and the 'not-ready' labels. It is not clear what 'unreachable' means and what 'not-ready' means.

> The node controller adds the taint to a node corresponding to the NodeCondition `Ready` being `Unknown`.

Reviewer: pls be careful when putting new terms. E.g. `NodeCondition` makes sense to developers, but not to average users.

If `PersistentVolumeLabel` does not support automatic labeling of your PersistentVolumes, you should consider
adding the labels manually (or adding support for `PersistentVolumeLabel`). With `PersistentVolumeLabel`, the scheduler prevents Pods from mounting volumes in a different zone. If your infrastructure doesn't have this constraint, you don't need to add the zone labels to the volumes at all.

## node.kubernetes.io/windows-build {#nodekubernetesiowindows-build}

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/windows-build=10.0.17763`

Used on: Node

> Starting in v1.17, this label is automatically added to adapt to the situation that the same cluster uses multiple versions of windows server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the kubelet is running on Microsoft Windows, the kubelet automatically labels its node
to record the version of Windows Server in use.
```

Mentioning v1.17 isn't needed; this PR targets documentation for the current (v1.20) release.

The label's value is in the format "MajorVersion.MinorVersion.BuildNumber".

> See [node.kubernetes.io/windows-build](#nodekubernetesiowindows-build).

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this link.

## service.kubernetes.io/headless {#servicekubernetesioheadless}

> Example: `service.kubernetes.io/headless=""`

Reviewer 2: What do the double quotes indicate (is this an example of JSON? YAML? Go? something else)?

Used on: Service

The label is added by Controller to an Endpoint denoting if its parent Service is Headless.

> See [service.kubernetes.io/headless](#servicekubernetesioheadless).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [`service.kubernetes.io/headless`](#servicekubernetesioheadless).
```

## kubernetes.io/service-name {#kubernetesioservice-name}

Example: `kubernetes.io/service-name="nginx"`

Used on: Service

> The label is the tag name we use to differentiate multiple services. Used currently for ELBs only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The label is the tag name we use to differentiate multiple Services. Used currently for ELBs only.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd write:
```suggestion
Kubernetes uses this label to differentiate multiple Services. Used currently for ELBs only.
```
however:
I also recommend explaining ELB, or rephrasing so that this text is not needed.

> See [kubernetes.io/service-name](#kubernetesioservice-name).

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this link.

## endpointslice.kubernetes.io/managed-by {#endpointslicekubernetesiomanaged-by}

Example: `endpointslice.kubernetes.io/managed-by="controller"`

> Used on: Endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Used on: EndpointSlice
```
?

The label is used to indicate the controller or entity that manages an EndpointSlice. This label aims to enable different EndpointSlice objects to be managed by different controllers or entities within the same cluster.

> When upgrading to v1.17 with a cluster with EndpointSlice enabled, the `endpointslice.kubernetes.io/managed-by` label needs to be set on each EndpointSlice.

Reviewer 2: This isn't needed; this PR targets documentation for the current (v1.20) release.

> See [endpointslice.kubernetes.io/managed-by](#endpointslicekubernetesiomanaged-by).

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this link.

## endpointslice.kubernetes.io/skip-mirror {#endpointslicekubernetesioskip-mirror}

Example: `endpointslice.kubernetes.io/skip-mirror="true"`

> Used on: Endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Used on: Endpoints
```

> The label can be set to true on an Endpoint resource to indicate that the EndpointSliceMirroring controller should not mirror this resource with EndpointSlices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set this label to `true` on an Endpoints resource to indicate that the EndpointSliceMirroring controller should not mirror this resource with EndpointSlices.
```

> See [endpointslice.kubernetes.io/skip-mirror](#endpointslicekubernetesioskip-mirror).

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this link.

## service.kubernetes.io/service-proxy-name {#servicekubernetesioservice-proxy-name}

Example: `service.kubernetes.io/service-proxy-name="foo-bar"`

Used on: Service

> The label indicates that a custom service proxy will implement this service, kube-proxy does not generate iptables for the service.

Reviewer 2: Bear in mind that kube-proxy might not be running in iptables mode. Can we reword to be more technology-neutral?

> See [service.kubernetes.io/service-proxy-name](#servicekubernetesioservice-proxy-name).

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this link.

# Annotations

## experimental.windows.kubernetes.io/isolation-type

> Example: `experimental.windows.kubernetes.io/isolation-type: "hyperv"`

Reviewer: Can we also add "used on:" for annotations, if possible?

Author: It also applies to the annotations, I will update it.

> The annotation is used to run windows containers with hyperv isolation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The annotation is used to run Windows containers with Hyper-V isolation.
```

Reviewer 2: I presume this is an annotation for a Pod. Is it a hint or something stronger? What acts on it (eg the kubelet)?

> At the moment this annotation only supports one container per pod.

Reviewer 2: I suggest
```markdown
{{< note >}}
You can only set this annotation on Pods that have a single container. If you annotate a
multi-container Pod with `experimental.windows.kubernetes.io/isolation-type: "hyperv"`
then [details, eg kubelet makes demons fly out of your nose]
{{< /note >}}
```

## ingressclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class

Example: `ingressclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class: "true"`

> When a single IngressClass resource has this annotation set to true, new Ingress resource without a class specified will be assigned this default class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a single IngressClass resource has this annotation set to `"true"`, new Ingress resource without a class specified will be assigned this default class.
```

Boolean values are always a headache. So please accurately specify that the value is actually a string.

## kubernetes.io/ingress.class (deprecated)

> {{< note >}} Starting in v1.18, this annotation is deprecated in favor of [spec.ingressClassName]. {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}} Starting in v1.18, this annotation is deprecated in favor of `spec.ingressClassName`. {{< /note >}}
```

> ## alpha.kubernetes.io/provided-node-ip

Reviewer 2: I presume this requires enabling an alpha feature. Have I got that right?

Example: `alpha.kubernetes.io/provided-node-ip: "10.0.0.1"`

> The annotation is a node IP annotation set by the "external" cloud provider.

Reviewer 2: Is this right?
```suggestion
The kubelet can set this annotation on a Node to denote its configured IPv4 address.
```
(does it also work with IPv6? What about a dual-stack node?)

Author: this taint is only used for IPv4 address.

> When kubelet is started with the "external" cloud provider, then it sets this annotation on the node to denote an ip address set from the cmd line flag (node-ip). This ip is verified with the cloudprovider as valid by the cloud-controller-manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When kubelet is started with the "external" cloud provider, it sets this annotation on the Node to denote an IP address set from the cmd line flag (`--node-ip`). This IP is verified with the cloud provider as valid by the cloud-controller-manager.
```

Reviewer 2: Also I recommend expanding “cmd line” to “command line”

> # Taints

Reviewer: Taints are always about Nodes. Maybe we can add such a single statement immediately after this header.

## node.kubernetes.io/not-ready

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/not-ready:NoExecute`

> The taint will be added when node is not ready and removed when node becomes ready.

Reviewer: Maybe add "The Node controller monitors the health of all Nodes and adds or removes this taint accordingly."

Reviewer 2: Could link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/#taint-nodes-by-condition

My opinion: it's OK for this page to say “the control plane” rather than “the Node controller”; specific details about how it's implemented would belong elsewhere.

## node.kubernetes.io/unreachable

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/unreachable:NoExecute`

> The taint will be added when node becomes unreachable (corresponding to NodeReady status Condition Unknown) and removed when node becomes reachable (NodeReady status Condition True).

Reviewer: Maybe add "The Node controller monitors the health of all Nodes and adds or removes this taint accordingly."

## node.kubernetes.io/unschedulable

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/unschedulable:NoSchedule`

> The taint will be added when node becomes unschedulable and removed when node becomes scheduable.

Reviewer: Maybe add "This taint is added to a Node during node initialization to avoid race condition."

## node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure:NoSchedule`

> The taint will be added when node has memory pressure and removed when node has enough memory.

Reviewer: Maybe add "The kubelet detects memory pressure based on the `memory.available` and `allocatableMemory.available` observed on a Node. The observed values are then compared to the corresponding thresholds that can be set on the kubelet to determine if the Node condition and taint should be added/removed."

## node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure:NoSchedule`

> The taint will be added when node has disk pressure and removed when node has enough disk.

Reviewer: Maybe add "The kubelet detects disk pressure by observing the `imagefs.available`,
`imagefs.inodesFree`, `nodefs.available`, and `nodefs.inodesFree`(Linux only) metrics for a Node. The observed values are then compared to the corresponding thresholds that can be set on the kubelet to determine if the node condition and taint should be added/removed."

## node.kubernetes.io/network-unavailable

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/network-unavailable:NoSchedule`

> The taint will be added when node's network is unavailable and removed when network becomes ready.

Reviewer: Maybe add "This is initially set by the kubelet when the cloud provider used indicates a requirement for additional network configuration. Only when the route on the cloud is configured properly will the taint be removed by the cloud provider."

## node.kubernetes.io/pid-pressure

Example: `node.kubernetes.io/pid-pressure:NoSchedule`

> The taint will be added when there are not enough process numbers to assign on the node and removed when there are enough process numbers to assign on the node.

Reviewer: Maybe add "The kubelet checks the PIDs consumed by Kubernetes on a node and the `rlimit` setting on the node. The number of available PIDs are referred to as the `pid.available` metric. The metric is then compared to the corresponding threshold that can be set on the kubelet to determine if the node condition and taint should be added/removed."

Reviewer 2: Does the kubelet also check the size of `/proc/sys/kernel/pid_max` when measuring for this taint? If so, we might want document that either here or on a page that we link to.
(if it's looking complex, that's a strong hint to note it and move on - we can sort out the details in a separate issue).

## node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized

Example: `node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized:NoSchedule`

> Sets this taint on a node to mark it as unusable, when kubelet is started with the "external" cloud provider, until a controller from the cloud-controller-manager initializes this node, and then removes the taint.

Reviewer 2: > when kubelet is started with the "external" cloud provider

I suspect that readers would not know how to check this. Does it mean `kubelet --cloud-provider=external`? Something else?

## node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/shutdown

Example: `node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/shutdown:NoSchedule`

> The taint will be added when node is shutdown in external cloud provider.

Reviewer 2: Is this correct
```suggestion
The cloud-controller-manager can set this taint if it detects that a mechanism outside
Kubernetes has marked the node for shutdown. This helps avoid scheduling new tasks onto
a node that is due to halt or reboot.
```
?
